Adds general S3 use-case documentation. #3833 (#3842)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _data-prepper/common-use-cases/s3-logs.md

---
layout: default
title: S3 logs
parent: Common use cases
nav_order: 20
---

# S3 logs

Data Prepper allows you to load logs from [Amazon Simple Storage Service](https://aws.amazon.com/s3/) (Amazon S3), including traditional logs, JSON documents, and CSV logs.

## Architecture

> Data Prepper can read objects from S3 buckets using an [Amazon Simple Queue Service (SQS)](https://aws.amazon.com/sqs/) (Amazon SQS) queue and [Amazon S3 Event Notifications](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/NotificationHowTo.html).

Reviewer: Remove "(SQS)".

Data Prepper polls the Amazon SQS queue for S3 event notifications. When Data Prepper receives a notification that an S3 object was created, Data Prepper reads and parses that S3 object.

The following diagram shows the overall architecture of the components involved.

<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/data-prepper/s3-source/s3-architecture.jpg" alt="S3 source architecture">{: .img-fluid}

> The flow of data is as follows.

Reviewer: Replace the period with a colon.

> 1. A system produces logs into the S3 bucket.

Reviewer: I'm not sure one can "produce into". Do we mean "A system sends logs to an S3 bucket"?

> 2. S3 creates an S3 event notification in the SQS queue.

Reviewer: Replace "the" with "an".

3. Data Prepper polls Amazon SQS for messages and then receives a message.
4. Data Prepper downloads the content from the S3 object.

> 5. Data Prepper sends a document to OpenSearch for the content in the S3 object.

Reviewer: This sentence is a bit unclear. Instead of "for", do we mean something like "containing"?

## Pipeline overview

Data Prepper supports reading data from S3 using the [`s3` source]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/sources/s3/).

The following diagram shows a conceptual outline of a Data Prepper pipeline reading from S3.

<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/data-prepper/s3-source/s3-pipeline.jpg" alt="S3 source architecture">{: .img-fluid}

## Prerequisites

Before Data Prepper can read log data from S3, you need the following prerequisites: 

- An S3 bucket.

> - A log producer that writes logs to S3. The exact log producer will vary depending on your specific use case, but could include writing logs to S3 or a service such as Amazon CloudWatch.

Reviewer: Remove the comma.

## Getting started

To begin loading logs from S3 with Data Prepper.

> 1. Create a [SQS standard queue](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSSimpleQueueService/latest/SQSDeveloperGuide/step-create-queue.html) for your S3 event notifications. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Create an [SQS standard queue](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSSimpleQueueService/latest/SQSDeveloperGuide/step-create-queue.html) for your S3 event notifications. 
```

2. Configure [bucket notifications](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/ways-to-add-notification-config-to-bucket.html) for SQS. Use the `s3:ObjectCreated:*` event type.

> 3. Grant [AWS IAM](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/introduction.html) permissions to Data Prepper for accessing SQS and S3.

Reviewer: IAM needs to be defined on first appearance: AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM). Just IAM on subsequent appearance.

4. (Recommended) Create an [SQS dead-letter queue](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSSimpleQueueService/latest/SQSDeveloperGuide/sqs-dead-letter-queues.html) (DLQ).

> 5. (Recommended) Configure an SQS re-drive policy to move failed messages into the DLQ.

Reviewer: "redrive"

> ### Setting permissions for Data Prepper

Reviewer: "Setting Data Prepper permissions"?

To view S3 logs, Data Prepper needs access to Amazon SQS and S3.
Use the following example to set up permissions:

```json
{
    "Version": "2012-10-17",
    "Statement": [
        {
            "Sid": "s3-access",
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": "s3:GetObject",
            "Resource": "arn:aws:s3:::<YOUR-BUCKET>/*"
        },
        {
            "Sid": "sqs-access",
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": [
                "sqs:DeleteMessage",
                "sqs:ReceiveMessage"
            ],
            "Resource": "arn:aws:sqs:<YOUR-REGION>:<123456789012>:<YOUR-SQS-QUEUE>"
        },
        {
            "Sid": "kms-access",
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": "kms:Decrypt",
            "Resource": "arn:aws:kms:<YOUR-REGION>:<123456789012>:key/<YOUR-KMS-KEY>"
        }
    ]
}
```

> If your S3 objects or SQS queues do not use KMS, you can remove the `kms:Decrypt` permission.

Reviewer: First appearance: AWS Key Management Service (AWS KMS).

### SQS dead-letter queue

> The are two options for how to handle errors resulting from processing S3 objects.

Reviewer: "There are two options for handling errors resulting from S3 object processing:" (note the colon).

> - Use an SQS dead-letter queue (DLQ) to track the failure. This is the recommended approach.

Reviewer: DLQ has already been defined, so just the abbreviation here.

- Delete the message from SQS. You must manually find the S3 object and correct the error.

The following diagram shows the system architecture when using SQS with DLQ.

<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/data-prepper/s3-source/s3-architecture-dlq.jpg" alt="S3 source architecture with dlq">{: .img-fluid}

> To use an SQS dead-letter queue, perform the following steps:

Reviewer: Replace "dead-letter queue" with "DLQ".

1. Create a new SQS standard queue to act as your DLQ.

> 2. Configure your SQS's redrive policy [to use your DLQ](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSSimpleQueueService/latest/SQSDeveloperGuide/sqs-configure-dead-letter-queue.html). Consider using a low value such as 2 or 3 for the "Maximum Receives" setting.

Reviewer: Remove "'s": Configure your SQS redrive policy..."

3. Configure the Data Prepper `s3` source to use `retain_messages` for `on_error`. This is the default behavior.

## Pipeline design

> Create a pipeline to read logs from S3, starting with an [`s3`]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/sources/s3/) source plugin. Use the following example for guidance. 

Reviewer: "Create a pipeline for reading logs from S3"? Replace the terminal period with a colon.

```yaml
s3-log-pipeline:
   source:
     s3:
       notification_type: sqs
       compression: gzip
       codec:
         newline:
       sqs:
         # Change this value to your SQS Queue URL
         queue_url: "arn:aws:sqs:<YOUR-REGION>:<123456789012>:<YOUR-SQS-QUEUE>"
         visibility_timeout: "2m"
```

Configure the following options according to your use case:

> * `queue_url`: This the SQS queue URL and is always unique to your pipeline.

Reviewer: "This is"

* `codec`: The codec determines how to parse the incoming data.
* `visibility_timeout`: Configure this value to be large enough for Data Prepper to process 10 S3 objects. However, if you make this value too large, messages that fail to process will take at least as long as the specified value before Data Prepper retries.

> The default values for each option work for the majority of use cases. For all available options for the S3 source, see [`s3`]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/sources/s3/).

Reviewer: "For all available S3 source options"

> ```yaml

Reviewer: This needs to be introduced by a brief sentence ending in a colon.

s3-log-pipeline:
   source:
     s3:
       notification_type: sqs
       compression: gzip
       codec:
         newline:
       sqs:
         # Change this value to your SQS Queue URL
         queue_url: "arn:aws:sqs:<YOUR-REGION>:<123456789012>:<YOUR-SQS-QUEUE>"
         visibility_timeout: "2m"
       aws:
         # Specify the correct region
         region: "<YOUR-REGION>"
         # This shows using an STS role, but you can also use your system's default permissions.
         sts_role_arn: "arn:aws:iam::<123456789012>:role/<DATA-PREPPER-ROLE>"
   processor:
     # You can configure a grok pattern to enrich your documents in OpenSearch.
     #- grok:
     #    match:
     #      message: [ "%{COMMONAPACHELOG}" ]
   sink:
     - opensearch:
         hosts: [ "https://localhost:9200" ]
         # Change to your credentials
         username: "admin"
         password: "admin"
         index: s3_logs
```

## Multiple Data Prepper pipelines

> We recommend that you have one SQS queue per Data Prepper pipeline. In addition, you can have multiple nodes in the same cluster reading from the same SQS queue, which doesn't require additional configuration with Data Prepper.

Reviewer: "We recommend that you create one SQS queue per Data Prepper pipeline. Additionally, multiple nodes in the same cluster can read from the same SQS queue, which doesn't require additional Data Prepper configuration."

---
layout: default
title: S3 logs
parent: Common use cases
nav_order: 20
---

# S3 logs

> Data Prepper supports loading logs from [Amazon Simple Storage Service](https://aws.amazon.com/s3/) (Amazon S3), including traditional logs, JSON documents, and CSV logs.

Reviewer 3: "Data Prepper allows you to load logs from ..."  or, "With Data Prepper, you can load logs from...." or "Data Prepper can..." or, Data Prepper supports the loading of logs..." @natebower?

Reviewer 2: Switched to "allows you too".

## Architecture

> Data Prepper supports reading objects from S3 buckets using an [Amazon Simple Queue Service (SQS)](https://aws.amazon.com/sqs/) (Amazon SQS) queue and [Amazon S3 Event Notifications](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/NotificationHowTo.html).

Reviewer 3: Same formulation as above

Reviewer 2: Switched to "can read objects".

> Data Prepper polls the Amazon SQS queue for S3 event notifications.When Data Prepper receives a notification that an S3 object was created, Data Prepper reads and parses that S3 object.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Data Prepper polls the Amazon SQS queue for S3 event notifications. When Data Prepper receives a notification that an S3 object was created, Data Prepper reads and parses that S3 object.
```

The following diagram shows the overall architecture of the components involved.

<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/data-prepper/s3-source/s3-architecture.jpg" alt="S3 source architecture">{: .img-fluid}

The flow of data is as follows.

1. A system produces logs into the S3 bucket.
2. S3 creates an S3 event notification in the SQS queue.
3. Data Prepper polls Amazon SQS for messages and then receives a message.
4. Data Prepper downloads the content from the S3 object.
5. Data Prepper sends a document to OpenSearch for the content in the S3 object.

## Pipeline overview

Data Prepper supports reading data from S3 using the [`s3` source]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/sources/s3/).

The following diagram shows a conceptual outline of a Data Prepper pipeline reading from S3.

<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/data-prepper/s3-source/s3-pipeline.jpg" alt="S3 source architecture">{: .img-fluid}

## Prerequisites

> In order to read log data from S3 using Data Prepper you need the following prerequisites: 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Before Data Prepper can read log data from S3, you need the following prerequisites: 
```

- An S3 bucket.

> - A log producer which writes logs to S3. The exact log producer will vary depending on your specific use-case, but could include writing logs to S3 or a service such as Amazon CloudWatch.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- A log producer that writes logs to S3. The exact log producer will vary depending on your specific use case, but could include writing logs to S3 or a service such as Amazon CloudWatch.
```

## Getting started

> To begin loading logs from S3 with Data Prepper.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use the following steps to begin loading logs from S3 with Data Prepper.
```

> 1. Create a [SQS standard queue](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSSimpleQueueService/latest/SQSDeveloperGuide/step-create-queue.html) for your S3 event notifications. 

Reviewer 4: "Create **an** SQS standard queue", as below.

2. Configure [bucket notifications](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/ways-to-add-notification-config-to-bucket.html) for SQS. Use the `s3:ObjectCreated:*` event type.
3. Grant [AWS IAM](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/introduction.html) permissions to Data Prepper for accessing SQS and S3.
4. (Recommended) Create an [SQS dead-letter queue](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSSimpleQueueService/latest/SQSDeveloperGuide/sqs-dead-letter-queues.html) (DLQ).
5. (Recommended) Configure an SQS re-drive policy to move failed messages into the DLQ.

### Setting permissions for Data Prepper

> To see S3 log, Data Prepper need access to Amazon SQS and S3.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To view S3 logs, Data Prepper needs access to Amazon SQS and S3.
```

Use the following example to set up permissions:

```json
{
    "Version": "2012-10-17",
    "Statement": [
        {
            "Sid": "s3-access",
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": "s3:GetObject",
            "Resource": "arn:aws:s3:::<YOUR-BUCKET>/*"
        },
        {
            "Sid": "sqs-access",
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": [
                "sqs:DeleteMessage",
                "sqs:ReceiveMessage"
            ],
            "Resource": "arn:aws:sqs:<YOUR-REGION>:<123456789012>:<YOUR-SQS-QUEUE>"
        },
        {
            "Sid": "kms-access",
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": "kms:Decrypt",
            "Resource": "arn:aws:kms:<YOUR-REGION>:<123456789012>:key/<YOUR-KMS-KEY>"
        }
    ]
}
```

> If your S3 objects or SQS queues does not use KMS, you can remove the `kms:Decrypt` permission.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If your S3 objects or SQS queues do not use KMS, you can remove the `kms:Decrypt` permission.
```

### SQS dead-letter queue

> The are two options for how to handle errors processing S3 objects.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The are two options for how to handle errors resulting from processing S3 objects.
```

> 1. Use an SQS dead-letter queue (DLQ) to track the failure. This is the recommended approach.

Reviewer 3: Should these e bullets if they are options?

> 2. Delete the message from SQS. You will have to manually find this S3 object and correct the error.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. Delete the message from SQS. You must manually find the S3 object and correct the error.
```

Using an SQS dead-letter queue is a built-in feature within SQS. 
The following diagram depicts the system architecture when using SQS with DLQ.

<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/data-prepper/s3-source/s3-architecture-dlq.jpg" alt="S3 source architecture with dlq">{: .img-fluid}

> To use an SQS dead-letter queue, you will need to perform the following steps:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To use an SQS dead-letter queue, perform the following steps:
```

1. Create a new SQS standard queue to act as your DLQ.

> 2. Configure your SQS's redrive policy [to use your DLQ](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSSimpleQueueService/latest/SQSDeveloperGuide/sqs-configure-dead-letter-queue.html).  Consider using a low value for the "Maximum Receives" setting, such as 2 or 3.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. Configure your SQS's redrive policy [to use your DLQ](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSSimpleQueueService/latest/SQSDeveloperGuide/sqs-configure-dead-letter-queue.html). Consider using a low value such as 2 or 3 for the "Maximum Receives" setting.
```

3. Configure the Data Prepper `s3` source to use `retain_messages` for `on_error`. This is the default behavior.

## Pipeline design

> Using the following example, create a pipeline to read logs from S3 starts with an [`s3`]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/sources/s3/) source plugin.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Create a pipeline to read logs from S3, starting with an [`s3`]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/sources/s3/) source plugin. Use the following example for guidance. 
```

```yaml
s3-log-pipeline:
   source:
     s3:
       notification_type: sqs
       compression: gzip
       codec:
         newline:
       sqs:
         # Change this value to your SQS Queue URL
         queue_url: "arn:aws:sqs:<YOUR-REGION>:<123456789012>:<YOUR-SQS-QUEUE>"
         visibility_timeout: "2m"
```

Configure the following options according to your use case:

* `queue_url`: This the SQS queue URL and is always unique to your pipeline.

> * `codec`:The codec determines how to parse the incoming data.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* `codec`: The codec determines how to parse the incoming data.
```

> * `visibility_timeout`: Configure this value to be large enough for Data Prepper to process 10 S3 objects. However, if you make this value too large, messages that fail to process will take at least that long before Data Prepper retries.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* `visibility_timeout`: Configure this value to be large enough for Data Prepper to process 10 S3 objects. However, if you make this value too large, messages that fail to process will take at least as long as the specified value before Data Prepper retries.
```

> * `visibility_timeout`:Configure this value to be large enough for Data Prepper to process 10 S3 objects. However, if you make this value too large, then messages which fail to process will take at least that long before Data Prepper retries.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* `visibility_timeout`: Configure this value to be large enough for Data Prepper to process 10 S3 objects. However, if you make this value too large, messages that fail to process will take at least that long before Data Prepper retries.
```

> The default values for each option works for the majority of use cases. For all available options for the S3 source, see [`s3`]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/sources/s3/).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The default values for each option work for the majority of use cases. For all available options for the S3 source, see [`s3`]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/sources/s3/).
```

```yaml
s3-log-pipeline:
   source:
     s3:
       notification_type: sqs
       compression: gzip
       codec:
         newline:
       sqs:
         # Change this value to your SQS Queue URL
         queue_url: "arn:aws:sqs:<YOUR-REGION>:<123456789012>:<YOUR-SQS-QUEUE>"
         visibility_timeout: "2m"
       aws:
         # Specify the correct region
         region: "<YOUR-REGION>"
         # This shows using an STS role, but you can also use your system's default permissions.
         sts_role_arn: "arn:aws:iam::<123456789012>:role/<DATA-PREPPER-ROLE>"
   processor:
     # You can configure a grok pattern to enrich your documents in OpenSearch.
     #- grok:
     #    match:
     #      message: [ "%{COMMONAPACHELOG}" ]
   sink:
     - opensearch:
         hosts: [ "https://localhost:9200" ]
         # Change to your credentials
         username: "admin"
         password: "admin"
         index: s3_logs
```

## Multiple Data Prepper pipelines

> You should have one SQS queue per Data Prepper pipeline. You can have multiple nodes in the same cluster reading from the same SQS queue, which doesn't require additional configuration with Data Prepper.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We recommend that you have one SQS queue per Data Prepper pipeline. In addition, you can have multiple nodes in the same cluster reading from the same SQS queue, which doesn't require additional configuration with Data Prepper.
```

> However, if you have multiple pipelines, you must create multiple SQS queues for each pipeline, even if both pipelines use the same S3 bucket.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you have multiple pipelines, you must create multiple SQS queues for each pipeline, even if both pipelines use the same S3 bucket.
```
